Banco Santander, S.A., ("Santander" or the "Offeror") in accordance with the provisions of securities market legislation, announces the following:

PRIVILEGED INFORMATION

Santander announces the launch of an invitation to the holders (subject to the restrictions indicated below) of the outstanding bonds of the issues denominated "€1,500,000,000 3.250 per cent. Subordinated Instruments due April 2026” (ISIN: XS1384064587) (the "2026 Subordinated Bonds") and "€1,000,000,000 3.125 per cent. Subordinated Instruments due January 2027” (ISIN: XS1548444816) (the "2027 Subordinated Bonds" and, together with the 2026 Subordinated Bonds, the "Bonds" and each a "Series") to offer any and all of the Bonds that they hold for repurchase by the Offeror for cash, subject to applicable laws and regulations, offering and distribution restrictions, and the other conditions described in the tender offer memorandum dated February 6, 2025 (the "Offer Memorandum") (the "Offers"). A table showing the characteristics of the Bonds and the terms of the Offers for their holders is shown below:

THE OFFERS WILL COMMENCE ON FEBRUARY 6, 2025 AND WILL END AT 5:00 P.M. (CENTRAL EUROPEAN TIME) ON FEBRUARY 12, 2025 (THE "EXPIRATION TIME") UNLESS EXTENDED, WITHDRAWN, MODIFIED OR TERMINATED AT THE SOLE AND ABSOLUTE DISCRETION OF THE OFFEROR. THE DEADLINES ESTABLISHED BY ANY INTERMEDIARY OR CLEARING SYSTEM MAY BE EARLIER THAN THE AFOREMENTIONED DEADLINE. The Offers are made on the terms and subject to the conditions contained in the Offer Memorandum and should be read in conjunction with the Offer Memorandum. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this communication shall have the meaning ascribed to the corresponding term in English in the Offer Memorandum. | Description of the Bonds                                                              | ISIN         | Outstanding nominal amount | Amortization Date | Bloomberg Reference Page | Reference Index          | Acquisition Margin | Amount subject to the Offers |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------- | :-------------------------- | :---------------- | :-------------------------- | :------------------------- | :----------------- | :-------------------------- |
| 1,500,000,000 3.250 per cent. Subordinated Instruments due April 2026               | XS1384064587 | €1,500,000,000             | April 4, 2026    | IRSB , Euro Zone, price source: BGN | Interpolated Mid-Swap Rate 2026 | +25 bps. | Any and all of the Bonds  |
| €1,000,000,000 3.125 per cent. Subordinated Instruments due January 2027           | XS1548444816 | €1,000,000,000             | January 19, 2027 | IRSB , Euro Zone, price source: BGN | Interpolated Mid-Swap Rate 2027 | +35 bps. |                               |

The submission of a valid Offer Instruction through the Clearing Systems will be irrevocable, except in the limited circumstances in which the revocation of an Offer Instruction is specifically permitted in accordance with the terms of the Offers. The Bonds may only be Offered for Sale in multiples of EUR 100,000, being the unit settlement value of the Bonds. Reason for the Offers

The reason for the Offers is to optimize the liquidity and the maturity and eligibility profile of the Offeror's own funds instruments and eligible liabilities. The Bonds acquired by the Offeror under the Offers will be cancelled and will not be reissued or resold. Bonds that have not been validly offered and accepted for purchase under the Offers will remain outstanding. Amount subject to the Offers

The Offeror proposes to accept Bonds offered under the Offers on the terms and subject to the conditions contained in the Offer Memorandum up to the outstanding nominal amount of the Bonds. In any case, the acceptance for purchase by the Offeror of the Bonds submitted in accordance with any of the Offers is at the sole discretion of the Offeror and the Offers to Sell may be rejected by the Offeror for any reason. Acquisition Price

The Acquisition Price of the 2026 Subordinated Bonds will be calculated by the Sole Lead Manager around 11:00 a.m. (CET) (the "Pricing Time") on February 13, 2025 (the "Pricing Date") as the price (expressed as a percentage of the nominal amount of the 2026 Subordinated Bonds accepted for purchase in accordance with the corresponding Offer, and rounded to the third decimal place, with 0.0005 being rounded upwards) equal to (a) each remaining payment of principal and interest of the 2026 Subordinated Bonds up to and including April 4, 2026 (being the maturity date of the 2026 Subordinated Bonds), discounted to February 17, 2025 (the "Settlement Date") at a discount rate equal to the sum of the Interpolated Mid-Swap Rate of the 2026 Subordinated Bonds and the corresponding Acquisition Margin, less (b) accrued and unpaid interest (if any) on the Bonds corresponding from (and including) the interest payment date with respect to such Bonds immediately prior to the Settlement Date up to (but excluding) the Settlement Date, calculated in accordance with the terms and conditions of the corresponding Bonds (the "Accrued Interest"). The Acquisition Price of the 2027 Subordinated Bonds will be calculated by the Sole Lead Manager on or around the Pricing Time on the Pricing Date as the price (expressed as a percentage of the nominal amount of the 2027 Subordinated Bonds accepted for purchase in accordance with the corresponding Offer, and rounded to the third decimal place, with 0.0005 being rounded upwards) equal to (a) each remaining payment of principal and interest of the 2027 Subordinated Bonds up to and including January 19, 2027 (being the maturity date of the 2027 Subordinated Bonds), discounted to the Settlement Date at a discount rate equal to the sum of the Interpolated Mid-Swap Rate of the 2027 Subordinated Bonds and the corresponding Acquisition Margin, less (b) the corresponding Accrued Interest. The determination of the corresponding Acquisition Price by the Sole Lead Manager shall, save for manifest error, be final and binding on all parties. New Bonds and Priority in Allocation

The Offeror also announces its intention, subject to market conditions, to issue a new series of euro-denominated non-preferred senior bonds [at a fixed rate] under the Program (the "New Bonds"). A Holder who wishes to subscribe for New Bonds, in addition to offering their Bonds for repurchase in accordance with the Offers, may be eligible to receive, at the sole and absolute discretion of the Offeror, priority in the allocation of the New Bonds, subject to the issuance of the New Bonds and to such Holder submitting a separate application for the subscription of such New Bonds. For further information, please refer to the Offer Memorandum. Holders should note that the pricing and allocation of the New Bonds is expected to take place prior to the Expiration Time of the Offers and any Holder wishing to subscribe for New Bonds in addition to offering existing Bonds for purchase pursuant to any of the Offers should, therefore, provide, as soon as possible, and prior to the allocation of the New Bonds, to the Sole Lead Manager any indication of a firm intention to offer Bonds for purchase pursuant to the Offers and the amount of Bonds they intend to offer in order for this to be taken into account as part of the allocation process for the New Bonds. The New Bonds are offered outside the United States to non-U.S. Persons, in accordance with the provisions of Regulation S ("Regulation S") of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time (the "U.S. Securities Act"). The New Bonds will not be registered under the U.S. Securities Act or the securities laws of any state or other jurisdiction of the United States and may not be offered or sold in the United States or delivered, directly or indirectly, within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. Persons without registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act. Any investment decision to purchase New Bonds should be made solely on the basis of the information contained in (i) the Base Prospectus and (ii) the final terms relating to the New Bonds (when available). Acceptance of Offers to Sell Bonds

Until the Offeror announces whether it has decided to accept valid Offers to Sell in accordance with any or all of the Offers, there is no guarantee that any Bonds validly Offered for Sale in accordance with the Offers will be accepted. The acceptance of any Bonds validly Offered for Sale is at the sole and absolute discretion of the Offeror and the Offeror reserves the absolute right not to accept any Bonds validly Offered for Sale in accordance with the Offers. Offer Consideration

The consideration (the "Offer Consideration") to be satisfied on the Settlement Date to each Qualifying Holder whose Bonds are validly Offered for Sale and accepted for repurchase by the Offeror in accordance with the Offers shall be an amount in euro equal to the sum of:

(i) the product of (x) the Acquisition Price and (y) the nominal amount of the corresponding Bonds; and

(ii) the Accrued Interest Amount corresponding to such Bonds,

rounded, if necessary, to the nearest EUR 0.01, with EUR 0.005 being rounded upwards. Extension, termination and modification

The Offeror reserves the right to extend, withdraw, terminate or modify the terms and conditions of the Offers at any time after the announcement of the Offers and before the announcement of the result of the Offers, as described in the Offer Memorandum under the heading "Extension, Termination and Amendment". Expected Schedule

| Events/Dates                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Times and dates                                                                                               |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Launch Date Announcement of the Offers and Offer Memorandum available to Eligible Holders upon request to the Offer Agent                                                                                                                                  | February 6, 2025                                                                                           |
| Pricing of the New Bonds                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | February 6, 2025                                                                                           |
| Expiration Time Deadline for receipt of Offer Instructions by the Offer Agent. Eligible Holders should note that Offer Instructions must be submitted in accordance with the Clearing System deadlines, which will be prior to the Expiration Time. | 5:00 p.m. (CET) on February 12, 2025                                                                       |
| Pricing Time Determination of the 2026 Interpolated Mid-Rate, the 2027 Interpolated Mid-Rate, the 2026 Repurchase Yield, the 2027 Repurchase Yield, the 2026 Acquisition Price and the 2027 Acquisition Price. | At or around 11:00 a.m. (CET) on February 13, 2025                                                         |
| Announcement of the results of the Offers Announcement of (i) whether the Offeror will accept any or all of the Bonds pursuant to the Offers and, if so, (ii) for any Series accepted for repurchase, details of the price, being, if any, the 2026 Interpolated Mid-Rate, the 2027 Interpolated Mid-Rate, the 2026 Repurchase Yield, the 2027 Repurchase Yield, the 2026 Acquisition Price and the 2027 Acquisition Price, and (iii) confirmation of the Settlement Date, the final total nominal amount of the Bonds of each Series offered for repurchase in accordance with the Offers and the nominal amount of the Bonds that will remain outstanding after the Settlement Date. | As soon as reasonably possible after the Pricing Time on February 13, 2025                                    |
| Settlement Date Issuance and settlement of the New Bonds (subject to satisfaction of certain conditions precedent contemplated in the underwriting agreement to be entered into between the Offeror and the underwriters in connection with the New Bonds). Payment of the Offer Consideration in relation to the Bonds accepted for purchase. | Expected for February 17, 2025                                                                              |

The schedule described is indicative and is subject to the Offeror's right to extend, reopen, modify and/or terminate the Offers (subject to applicable law and as provided in the Offer Memorandum). Announcements and notifications to be made to Eligible Holders in connection with the Offers will be made (i) by communication to the Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores (the "CNMV") and (ii) by delivery of notices to the Clearing Systems for communication to the Participating Entities. Announcements may also be made by issuing a press release to one or more Notifying News Services. Copies of all such announcements, press releases and notices may also be obtained by requesting them from the Offer Agent. Significant delays may occur if notices are sent through the Clearing Systems, so Eligible Holders are urged to contact the Offer Agent to receive relevant announcements during the Offer Period. Eligible Holders are advised to check with any Intermediary through which they hold their Bonds the deadlines by which such Intermediary would require receipt of instructions from Eligible Holders to participate in the Offers, or to withdraw their instructions to participate therein, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Offers described in the Offer Memorandum, in order to meet the relevant deadlines (which will be earlier than the deadlines set out above) and the corresponding deadlines established by the Clearing Systems. Banco Santander, S.A. acts as Sole Lead Manager of the Offers and Kroll Issuer Services Limited acts as Offer Agent. For the detailed terms of the Offers, please refer to the Offer Memorandum which (subject to offering and distribution restrictions) may be obtained from the Sole Lead Manager and the Offer Agent referred to below. Holders who have questions about the Offers may contact the Sole Lead Manager and the Offer Agent through the contact details listed at the end of this announcement. Questions or requests for assistance in participating in the Offers and in delivering Acquisition Instructions may be directed to the Offer Agent. SOLE LEAD MANAGER

Santander Corporate and Investment Banking

Ciudad Grupo Santander

Avenida de Cantabria s/n

28660

Madrid, Spain

Attn: Liability Management

Email: liability.management@gruposantander.com

THE OFFER AGENT

Kroll Issuer Services Limited

The Shard

32 London Bridge Street

London SE1 9SG

United Kingdom

Tel: +44 20 7704 0880

Attn: David Shilson/Scott Boswell

Email: santander@is.kroll.com

Website: https://deals.is.kroll.com/santander

Boadilla del Monte (Madrid), February 6, 2025

THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST NOT BE DISCLOSED, PUBLISHED OR DISTRIBUTED IN, OR TO ANY PERSON LOCATED OR RESIDENT IN, A JURISDICTION WHERE IT IS ILLEGAL TO DISCLOSE, PUBLISH OR DISTRIBUTE THIS ANNOUNCEMENT. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

This announcement should be read in conjunction with the Offer Memorandum. This announcement and the Offer Memorandum contain important information that should be carefully read before making any decision with respect to the Offers. If any Eligible Holder has any doubt about the contents of this announcement, the Offer Memorandum or the actions they should take, they are advised to seek financial, legal, regulatory and tax advice immediately, including in relation to potential tax consequences, from their stockbroker, bank manager, attorney, accountant or other independent financial, tax or legal advisor. No offer or invitation to acquire the securities is being made by means of this announcement. Neither the Offeror, nor the Sole Lead Manager, nor the Offer Agent, nor any of their respective directors, employees, officers, agents or affiliates expresses any opinion on the merits of the Offers nor makes any recommendation as to whether or not an Eligible Holder should Offer for Sale its Bonds, and no one has been authorized by the Offeror, the Sole Lead Manager or the Offer Agent to make such a recommendation. RESTRICTIONS ON OFFERS

United States

The Offers are not being made, and will not be made, directly or indirectly in or into, or by use of the mails of, or by any means or instrumentality of interstate or foreign commerce of, or of any facilities of a national securities exchange of, the United States. This includes, but is not limited to, facsimile transmission, electronic mail, telex, telephone, the internet and other forms of electronic communication. The Bonds may not be tendered in the Offers by any such use, means, instrument or facility from or within the United States or by persons located or resident in the United States as defined in Regulation S of the United States Securities Act of 1933 (the "United States Securities Act"), as amended (the "United States Securities Act"). Accordingly, copies of the Offer Memorandum and any other documents or materials relating to the Offers are not being, and must not be, directly or indirectly, mailed or otherwise transmitted, distributed or forwarded (including, without limitation, by custodians, nominees or trustees) in or into the United States. Any purported tender of Bonds in the Offers resulting directly or indirectly from a violation of these restrictions will be invalid, and any purported tender of Bonds made by a person located in the United States or any agent, fiduciary or other intermediary acting on a non-discretionary basis for a principal giving instructions from within the United States will be invalid and will not be accepted. The Offer Memorandum does not constitute an offer to purchase or sell or a solicitation of an offer to purchase or sell Bonds or other securities in the United States. Securities may not be offered or sold in the United States without registration or exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act. Each Holder of Bonds participating in the Offers will represent that it is not located in the United States and is not participating in the Offers from the United States or is acting on a non-discretionary basis for a principal located outside the United States that is not giving an order to participate in the Offers from the United States. For the purposes of this section and the foregoing, "United States" means the United States of America, its territories and possessions, any state of the United States of America and the District of Columbia. United Kingdom

The communication of the Offer Memorandum and any other documents or materials relating to the Offers is not being made, and such documents and/or materials have not been approved, by an authorized person for the purposes of section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Accordingly, such documents and/or materials are not being distributed to the general public in the United Kingdom and must not be transmitted to them. The communication of such documents and/or materials as a financial promotion is only being made to those persons in the United Kingdom who fall within the definition of investment professionals (as defined in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005, as amended (the "Financial Promotion Order")) or persons who fall within Article 43 of the Financial Promotion Order or any other persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully be made under the Financial Promotion Order, and only those persons may act upon it. France

The Offer Memorandum and any offering documents or materials relating to the Offers may not be distributed in the Republic of France except to qualified investors (investisseurs qualifiés) as defined in Article 2(e) of the Prospectus Regulation, as amended, and in Article L.411-2 of the French Code monétaire et financier, as amended from time to time. The Offer Memorandum has not been and will not be submitted to the Autorité des marchés financiers for authorization. Republic of Italy

Neither the Offers, nor the Offers Prospectus, nor any other document or material relating to the Offers have been or will be submitted to the authorization procedures of the Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa ("CONSOB") in accordance with Italian laws and regulations. The Offers is being carried out in the Republic of Italy ("Italy") as an exempt offer pursuant to Article 101-bis, paragraph 3-bis of Legislative Decree No. 58 of February 24, 1998, as amended (the "Financial Services Act") and Article 35-bis, paragraph 4 of CONSOB Regulation No. 11971 of May 14, 1999, as amended. Holders or beneficial owners of the Bonds who are located in Italy may offer their Bonds in the Offers through authorized persons (such as investment firms, banks or financial intermediaries authorized to carry out such activities in Italy in accordance with the Financial Services Act, CONSOB Regulation No. 20307 of February 15, 2018, as amended, and Legislative Decree No. 385 of September 1, 1993, as amended) and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or with requirements imposed by CONSOB or any other Italian authority. Each intermediary must comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding information duties with respect to its clients in connection with the Bonds and/or the Offers. Spain

Neither the Offers nor the Offer Memorandum constitutes an offer of securities or a solicitation of an offer of securities in Spain requiring the approval and publication of a prospectus pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, Law 6/2023, of March 17, on Securities Markets and Investment Services, as amended, and implementing regulations. Consequently, the Offer Memorandum has not been and will not be submitted to or approved by the Comisión Nacional de los Mercados de Valores (the "CNMV"). General

The Offer Memorandum does not constitute an offer to purchase or the solicitation of an offer to sell New Bonds, and offers to purchase Bonds pursuant to the Offers will not be accepted in any circumstances in which such offer or solicitation is unlawful. Each Holder of Bonds participating in the Offers will also be deemed to make certain representations and warranties with respect to the jurisdictions mentioned above and, in general, as set forth in "Procedures for submitting Offers to Sell - Representations, warranties and undertakings by the Holders and Direct Participants" of the Offer Memorandum. Any Offer to Sell Bonds pursuant to the Offers from a Holder or its Direct Participant that is unable to make these representations and warranties will not be accepted. The Offeror, the Sole Lead Manager and the Offer Agent reserve the right, in their sole discretion, to investigate, in connection with any Offer to Sell Bonds, whether any of such representations and warranties offered by a Holder is correct and, if such investigation is carried out and, as a result, the Offeror, the Sole Lead Manager or the Offer Agent determine (for any reason) that such representation and warranty is not correct, such Offer to Sell will not be accepted. NEW BONDS

Any investment decision to purchase New Bonds should be made solely on the basis of the information contained in (i) the base prospectus approved by the Central Bank of Ireland on March 13, 2024 in connection with the Offeror's program for the issuance of debt instruments, supplemented by the supplement thereto dated August 9, 2024 and October 15, 2024 (collectively, the "Base Prospectus") and (ii) each of the final terms with respect to the New Bonds (when available). The Base Prospectus is available on the Offeror's website and on the Euronext Dublin website (https://live.euronext.com/). The offer of the New Bonds may be restricted by law in certain jurisdictions, so persons into whose possession this announcement comes should inform themselves about and observe such restrictions. Any failure to comply with these restrictions could result in a violation of the laws of any such jurisdiction. MiFID II product governance / Target market solely for professional investors and eligible counterparties - Solely for the purposes of each manufacturer's product approval process, the target market assessment in respect of the New Bonds has led to the conclusion that: (i) the target market for the New Bonds is solely eligible counterparties and professional clients, each as defined in Directive 2014/65/EU, as amended ("MiFID II"); and (ii) all channels for distribution of the New Bonds to eligible counterparties and professional clients are appropriate. Any person subsequently offering, selling or recommending the New Bonds (a "distributor") should take into consideration the manufacturers' target market assessment; however, a distributor subject to MiFID II is responsible for undertaking its own target market assessment in respect of the New Bonds (by either adopting or refining the manufacturers' target market assessment) and determining appropriate distribution channels. EU PRIIPs Regulation / PROHIBITION OF SALES TO RETAIL INVESTORS IN THE EEA – The New Bonds are not intended to be offered, sold or otherwise made available to, and should not be offered or sold to or otherwise made available to any retail investor in the European Economic Area (“EEA”). For these purposes, a retail investor means a person who is one (or more) of: (i) a retail client as defined in point (11) of Article 4 (1) of MiFID II; or (ii) a customer within the meaning of Directive (EU) 2016/97, where that customer would not qualify as a professional client as defined in point (10) of Article 4(1) of MiFID II or (iii) not a qualified investor as that term is defined in Regulation (EU) (EU) 2017/1129 (as amended, the "Prospectus Regulation"). Consequently, no key information document required by Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 (the "EU PRIIPs Regulation") for offering or selling the New Bonds or otherwise making them available to retail investors in the EEA has been prepared and therefore offering or selling the New Bonds or otherwise making them available to any retail investor in the EEA may be unlawful under the EU PRIIPs Regulation. UK MiFIR product governance / Target market solely for professional investors and eligible counterparties - Solely for the purposes of each manufacturer's product approval process, the target market assessment in respect of the New Bonds has led to the conclusion that: (i) the target market for the New Bonds is solely eligible counterparties, as defined in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook ("COBS") of the FCA Handbook, and professional clients, as defined in Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 as it forms part of domestic law of the United Kingdom by virtue of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 ("UK MiFIR"); and (ii) all channels for distribution of the New Bonds to eligible counterparties and professional clients are appropriate. Any person subsequently offering, selling or recommending the New Bonds (a "Distributor") should take into consideration the manufacturers' target market assessment; however, a distributor subject to the FCA Handbook Product Intervention and Product Governance Sourcebook (the "UK MiFIR Product Governance Rules") is responsible for undertaking its own target market assessment in respect of the New Bonds (by either applying the manufacturer's target market assessment or refining it) and determining appropriate distribution channels accordingly. UK PRIIPs Regulation/ PROHIBITION OF SALES TO UK RETAIL INVESTORS – The New Bonds are not intended to be offered, sold or otherwise made available to, and should not be offered, sold or otherwise made available to any UK retail investor. For these purposes, a retail investor means a person who is one (or more) of the following: (i) a retail client, as defined in point (8) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 2017/565 as it forms part of UK domestic law by virtue of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 (the "EUWA"); or (ii) a customer within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (as amended, the "FSMA") and any rules or regulations relating under the FSMA to implement Directive (EU) 2016/97, where that customer would not qualify as a professional client, as defined in point (8) of Article 2(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 as it forms part of UK domestic law by virtue of the EUWA. ; or (iii) is not a qualified investor as defined in Article 2 of the Prospectus Regulation as it forms part of domestic law of the United Kingdom by virtue of the EUWA. The New Bonds are offered outside the United States to non-U.S. Persons, in accordance with the provisions of Regulation S. The New Bonds will not be registered under the U.S. Securities Act or the securities laws of any state or other jurisdiction of the United States and may not be offered or sold in the United States or delivered, directly or indirectly, within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. Persons without registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act. Any investment decision to purchase New Bonds should be made solely on the basis of the information contained in (i) the Base Prospectus and (ii) each of the final terms relating to the New Bonds (when available). The New Bonds are not being offered or sold in the United States. Nothing contained in this announcement constitutes an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the New Bonds in the United States or any other jurisdiction. The New Bonds may not be offered, sold or delivered in the United States without registration or exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act. The New Bonds have not been, and will not be, registered under the U.S. Securities Act or the securities laws of any state or other jurisdiction of the United States and may not be offered, sold or delivered, directly or indirectly, within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. Persons (as defined in Regulation S under the U.S. Securities Act). This announcement is not distributed or intended to be transmitted to the general public in the United Kingdom and is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity for the purposes of section 21 of the FSMA. This announcement is directed only at (i) persons who are located outside the United Kingdom; (ii) persons who are investment professionals within the meaning of Article 19(5) of the Financial Promotion Order; (iii) “high net worth entities” meeting the requirements set out in Article 49(2)(a) to (d) of the Financial Promotion Order; or (iv) any other persons to whom, for the purposes of section 21 of the FSMA, this announcement may lawfully be distributed (all such persons together being referred to as "relevant persons"), and persons who are not relevant persons should not use it or rely on it. Any investment or investment activity to which this announcement relates is available only to relevant persons and will be engaged in only with relevant persons. Neither the New Bonds nor the Base Prospectus have been registered with the CNMV. On that basis, the New Bonds may not be offered, sold or distributed, and no subsequent resale of the New Bonds may be carried out in Spain, except in circumstances that do not require the registration of a prospectus in Spain or without complying with all the legal and regulatory requirements under Spanish securities market law. No advertising or marketing of any kind will be carried out in Spain in relation to the New Bonds. This announcement does not constitute an offer to sell securities or investments or a solicitation of an offer to purchase securities or investments in any jurisdiction in which such offer or solicitation is unlawful. No action has been taken that would permit an offering of the New Bonds or possession or distribution of this announcement in any jurisdiction where action for that purpose is required. Persons into whose possession this announcement comes should inform themselves about and observe any such restrictions.