UN Network of Economists Report for the  
75th Anniversary of the United Nations 
Shaping the trends 
of our time
SEPTEMBER 2020
SUMMARY The full report is available at www.un.org/development/desa/publications
Copyright © United Nations 
All rights reserved. Graphic design: Prographics 
Cover photo: Louis Reed / unsplash
 Our world is in danger, it is being subjected to pres -
sures on several fronts. But this does not have to be 
the case, especially when the dangers derive from hu -
man activities and their mitigation depends on our 
choices. If we make the right decisions today, without 
further delay, we will still be in time to shape the 
main trends of our time towards a direc-
tion that is sustainable and generates benefits for all. During much of the 1990s and early 
2000s, stable economic progress masked several 
problems. The global financial crisis of 2008 and the 
subsequent Great Recession revealed these issues 
and generated a greater willingness to examine them in 
a new light. This crisis also unleashed a renewed 
spirit of multilateral cooperation, stimulated by the 
need for a common and coordinated response. The 
adoption in 2015 of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development and the Paris Agreement on climate 
change created a new development paradigm, 
an action plan for prosperity, people 
and the planet based on partnerships and multilateralism. However, the 2030 Agenda has lost its way. The 
political commitments have not always translated into 
policy actions. Sustainable finance is 
increasing, but not fast enough or on the 
scale needed. The change of behaviors 
Summary
Prayag Tejwani / unsplash
SHAPING THE TRENDS OF OUR TIME 1 and mindsets is not yet compatible with 
our sustainability ambitions. And now, the world faces an unprecedented 
health, social and economic crisis 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic that threatens 
to derail the achievement of the 2030 Agenda and its 
17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The megatrends that 
shape our world
The failure to stay on track with the SDGs 
reflects shortcomings in public policies, slow 
changes in investment and consumption patterns 
and production. Progress has also been subject 
to the influence of several megatrends that have been 
shaping our world over time. This report focuses on five of 
these megatrends: climate change; 
demographic changes, especially aging 
of the population; urbanization; the emergence of 
digital technologies; and inequalities. All 
these are the result of human activity 
and, as such, can be determined by 
human decisions and policy choices. Three of these (demographic trends, 
urbanization, and technological innovation) 
are manifestations of human progress and, 
therefore, are "inevitable" and will continue 
to occur as long as human beings continue 
to relate and interact with each other. However, 
climate change, environmental degradation, and 
inequalities are not unavoidable; they are rather the 
result of resounding policy failures. This distinction is essential in policy decision-making 
that leads to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda, 
and not away from it. The first three 
megatrends generate explicit benefits for societies and 
economies; therefore, they should not be stopped or 
hindered, but rather directed and 
shaped to maximize their positive effects and mini -
mize any adverse effects. However, climate change 
and environmental degradation have no 
positive effect and must be reversed. Similarly, 
growing and persistent inequalities have 
an overall negative effect. While some people 
may benefit, many more will be dis -
favored, and the process undermines sus-
tainable development. Inequalities must also be corrected. Although these five megatrends constitute universal phenome-
na, the first three can be shaped 
through national policies, but this is not the case with 
the other two. Climate change can only be solved if 
all countries act in agreement. However, inequalities 
are something hybrid, since each country can combat 
them, to a large extent, through national policies. However, mitigating inequalities between countries, 
such as the technological gap, requires a cooperative 
effort on a global scale. This report focuses on these five megatrends 
for two main reasons. First, each 
is directly related to the 2030 Agenda. Among 
the five, four have their "own" SDG: climate change 
(SDG 13), urbanization (SDG 11), technological innovation 
(SDG 9) and inequalities (SDG 10). And the 
fifth, corresponding to demographic developments, 
occupies a prominent place in the goals of several SDGs. Secondly, these five megatrends are 
strongly interconnected. Each directly influences 
both sustainable development outcomes and the other megatrends. They often act in combination, reinforcing their individual effects. In other cases, the effect of a mega-
trend can slow down or counteract the effect 
of another, both positively and negatively. This means that policies that shape a specific megatrend 
and reduce or reorient its impact can also reinforce 
or influence other megatrends and produce secondary benefits. This is an important consideration for the design 
and prioritization of policy interventions. 2 REPORT OF THE UN NETWORK OF ECONOMISTS FOR THE 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNITED NATIONS - SUMMARY COVID-19: A crisis and 
an opportunity
The COVID-19 pandemic is the greatest immediate challenge 
of our time. What began as a public 
health emergency has turned into the most profound mun -
dial recession since the Great Depression. The magnitude 
of the crisis threatens all that has been achieved in terms 
of sustainable development over the past five years, 
as well as much of the development progress achieved 
in the previous Millennium Development Goals. The pandemic affects us all, but not all 
equally. It has highlighted and increased the existing 
inequalities between and within countries, and 
has been more detrimental to countries and groups 
that were already more at risk of being left behind. The crisis is affecting megatrends in diff -
erent ways. For example, the increase in teleworking 
due to confinement has accelerated the digitization 
of the economy and is driving techno -
logical innovation. But not all jobs can be done in 
a remote way, and access to a high-speed 
internet connection is very unequal. This means that 
COVID-19 is accentuating the digital divide and aggravating 
inequalities. However, a positive aspect of 
economic activity having stopped completely 
is that the generation of greenhouse gas emissions, 
as well as air and water pollution, has also been interrupted; 
in addition, the state of biodiversity has been improved. However, 
these achievements will be ephemeral if the recovery does not focus 
on the preservation of nature and the climate. As damaging as the crisis has been, it is 
also a great opportunity to rebuild 
"better," reinvent many of our institutions, 
economic and social structures, as well as 
behaviors and activities, in order to definitively orient them 
towards sustainable development. Many governments have responded to the crisis with bold and creative measures, and with large-scale interventions. This could bode well for the recovery from the crisis, which should not be a simple return to what we had before. With the SDGs as a master plan for recovery, we have an opportunity to tackle problems that would have been very difficult to deal with under normal circumstances. In addition, we can do so in an innovative way. Effects on the SDGs
It is obvious that climate change affects SDG 13 (climate action), while environmental degradation in all its forms, such as the loss of biodiversity, harms SDG 6 (clean water and sanitation), SDG 14 (life below water) and SDG 15 (life of terrestrial ecosystems). It also affects SDG 10 (reduction of inequalities), since the most detrimental consequences fall on the most vulnerable groups. Since decarbonization is an essential part of the solution to climate change, climate action contributes to the achievement of SDG 7 (affordable and non-contaminating energy). The loss of natural capital due to environmental damage undermines the basis of future prosperity and affects SDG 8 (decent work and economic growth). Demographic trends , such as changes in age structures, have important effects in various areas of sustainable development: in SDG 1 (end of poverty), as they can help reduce poverty and affect the fiscal balance of social protection systems; in SDG 2 (zero hunger), because slower population growth reduces the total demographic pressure in the fight against hunger and can improve nutrition and food security; in SDG 3 (health and well-being), due to the associated improvements in maternal and child health; and in SDG 4 (quality education), due to the link between reduced fertility and increased investment in education per child. Aging is also related to SDG 5 (gender equality), since the factors that drive the decline in fertility are the same that accelerate gender equality and women's empowerment. It can also contribute to SDG 8 through the demographic dividend, and to SDG 10 through the reduction of inequalities, since the reduction of fertility differences between socioeconomic groups facilitates greater access to services and economic opportunities. Urbanization affects all the SDGs, directly or indirectly. Sustainable development depends on sustainable urbanization, since everything is concentrated in cities: the use of resources and energy, waste and pollution, as well as income and wealth. This requires compliance with SDG 11 (sustainable cities and communities). However, more generally, success in addressing any of these challenges posed by urbanization will generate direct advantages or indirect secondary benefits throughout the sustainable development agenda. Among the policy interventions, urban policy is the one that could have the greatest effect on the three dimensions of the agenda: society, the economy and the environment. Technological advances will be crucial for the achievement of many of the SDGs, especially those related to greater resource efficiency, decarbonization, most environmental conservation efforts, greater agricultural productivity and better water quality and sanitation, health and education. Therefore, technological innovations can contribute positively to the achievement of the first seven Objectives, as well as to SDGs 13, 14 and 15. Digital technology is rapidly changing the nature and functioning of labor markets, economic productivity and the sustainability and inclusion of growth, and will determine progress in SDG 8. Innovation is at the core of SDG 9 (industry, innovation and infrastructure). Technology can also be a decisive factor in the achievement of SDGs 10 and 11, and is fundamental for the transition necessary for SDG 12 (responsible production and consumption). Inequality , by its very nature, cannot be compatible with the fundamental principle of the 2030 Agenda of leaving no one behind. Therefore, SDG 10 seeks to significantly reduce inequalities in income and opportunities. Inequalities in access to opportunities and basic capabilities prevent the full achievement of SDGs 1, 2, 3 and 4. Economic inequalities limit the achievement of SDGs 6, 7, 8 and 9. If this issue is not addressed, discriminatory treatment of women would make it impossible to achieve SDG 5.
What path should we follow from now on? Policies to shape megatrends
Megatrends have been brewing for decades, so it is not easy to undo them or change them significantly immediately. However, over time, it is possible to shape them through consistent policies. All megatrends can have both positive and negative effects. For example, urbanization brings together all the necessary factors for technological innovation and productivity improvements, but urban centers generate most of the pollution and waste, harmful to the natural environment. Addressing the negative outcomes of a megatrend can slow down some of the positive effects it generates, and vice versa. Policies can influence a single megatrend, or several others that interact with it. This enables the creation of secondary benefits, when a positive outcome is achieved in one area thanks to an intervention designed to generate changes in another. This type of intervention can propel more effective changes that mutually reinforce each other and much more significant impacts. The implications of this for policymaking are important. First, policymakers in each area need to be aware of the causal links between megatrends and how they interact, and must be able to assess the indirect effects that intervention in one area can have on the outcomes of another. Second, interventions in any area that may or will cause a regressive effect in another should be avoided. Third, mutually reinforcing effects can be enhanced through coordinated policymaking in different areas, including interventions applied to one area that are designed and programmed to coincide with actions in another. And, fourth, when opposing effects occur in two or more areas, effective policymaking should compensate for trade-offs between losses and gains, which implies a horizontal and vertical coordination that is permanent and effective between various decision-making focuses. These considerations will play a fundamental role in prioritizing policy interventions and in choosing between alternative approaches. Sequencing is also important. For example, the digitization of economies is inevitable and essential, but it will also exacerbate inequalities unless it is accompanied by—and in some cases preceded by—policies to create a digital infrastructure, ensure universal access at an affordable cost, and provide lifelong education and training to all citizens so that they can make the most of new jobs. Also, as an example, greater employment opportunities are fundamental to ensure that an increase in the young population becomes a demographic dividend and that aging societies can maintain or improve their living standards and the productivity of their workforce. Given the entrenched nature of megatrends, policies to shape them and their consequences must prioritize influencing their triggers. In some cases, this can be achieved in part by addressing the effects of another megatrend, which could transcend the social, economic, and environmental dimensions of sustainable development. For example, effective building codes that reduce energy consumption in urban centers are paramount for sustainable urban planning that eliminates the overall demand for electricity, as well as greenhouse gas emissions. In other cases, effective interventions are within the same dimension of sustainable development. For example, careful management of changes in land use and reduced deforestation help slow changes in hydrological cycles that can directly affect the climate, while preserving the carbon capture capacity of forests and reducing global warming. SHAPING THE TRENDS OF OUR TIME 5 Louis Maniquet / unsplash The factors that contribute to climate change and environmental degradation are deeply rooted in our societies and economies. In order to reverse this megatrend, a transformation will be necessary both in supply and in demand, which includes conscious changes in our lifestyle that modify consumer preferences and behaviors, less polluting production processes, greater resource efficiency and corporate responsibility. The integration of natural capital into development policies would help to focus more attention on sustainability. In particular, it is necessary to carry out a significant transition towards sustainable food production systems, since these drive a large part of the human-induced land use. In order to maintain the productivity of the land and the means of livelihood, we must act on the basis of a greater understanding of biodiversity and climate. Enormous opportunities could be created from the generation of natural capital through the restoration of mangroves to mitigate flooding and recover wetlands. Multifaceted approaches—such as nature-based solutions, the neutralization of land degradation, and the circular economy—will be essential to harness the potential of integrated policies when addressing cross-cutting problems. A crucial part of the agenda of climate action in all countries must be the acceleration of the transition from fossil fuel to renewable and non-polluting energy sources. Governments should fully resort to the use of market-based mechanisms and incentives and prices, especially carbon pricing and the elimination of subsidies to fossil fuels. In addition, this global approach must include regulatory measures, such as the establishment of minimum fuel efficiency standards for vehicle fleets, minimum air quality standards, differentiated taxes for vehicles based on their fuel economy, and the gradual elimination of all tax benefits for polluting industries, especially fossil fuels. The mobilization of sufficient funds for climate mitigation and adaptation is fundamental for the achievement of national climate action plans, but it does not cover all needs. Multilateral development banks—and, increasingly, also national banks—play an important role, but additional funds need to be mobilized, including those from the private financial sector. Innovative instruments, such as debt swaps for climate change adaptation and mitigation, are promising. Credible measures with respect to progress and sustainability will be crucial. Climate change and 
environmental degradation
United Nations Photo / John Isaac
SHAPING THE TRENDS OF OUR TIME 7 Demographic trends and 
aging of the population
Due to their slow and long-term evolutionary nature, demographic trends are not prone to rapid policy-induced changes. Therefore, the most successful policy interventions will be those based on careful long-term planning, which address the management of aging and changes in the age structure of the population as a result of declining fertility and increased life expectancy. The expansion of access to sexual and reproductive health services supports the capacity to make decisions at a personal level and to make the desire to be a mother a reality; it helps to reduce unplanned and high-risk pregnancies, as well as maternal and infant mortality; and it finances the expansion of schooling and economic opportunities for girls and women. Investing in the education and health of all improves productivity and maintains economic growth. This type of investment is necessary to make the most of potential demographic dividends. Lifelong learning will become increasingly important to stay up to date with technological changes and ensure the adaptability of knowledge throughout the life cycle. Specific training for older people on the use of new technologies will give them greater opportunities to remain active, even within the labor market. Preventative healthcare helps maintain the functional capacity and well-being of people at all stages of life and is increasingly important as populations age. Ending discrimination based on age, including barriers to employment, could contribute significantly to a reduction in inequalities, increased productivity, and promotion of inclusive economic growth. Accelerating gender equality in employment by eliminating barriers to female participation and adopting family-friendly policies improves workforce participation and maintains higher levels of economic activity and well-being. It is an effective way to avoid a decrease in the labor force and generate a "gender" dividend. Universal social protection with adequate benefits and the promotion of retirement savings are essential to reduce poverty and inequality, as well as to improve social inclusion and resilience. The adoption of social security reforms that take into account the growing longevity gap by socioeconomic level could contribute to reducing inequalities. A suitable combination of work, savings, public and private transfers is needed to distribute the fiscal pressures associated with population aging over time and among all institutions. Clément Falize / Unsplash
8 REPORT OF THE UN NETWORK OF ECONOMISTS FOR THE 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNITED NATIONS - SUMMARY Sustainable urbanization
Carefully designed national urban policies are an instrument to direct urbanization opportunities and guarantee balanced territorial development. Governments should incorporate urbanization into their economic and national development planning by focusing on the economic sectors that take advantage of their potential and prioritizing investments that increase the productivity of cities. Economic planning based explicitly on spatial considerations will help build a system of diverse and specialized cities with complementary economic functions, supported by infrastructure investments that promote city networks and connect urban areas with rural areas. Urban planning should develop compact and multi-use designs that generate value from urban land, create job opportunities for the urban population in situations of poverty, reduce congestion and improve social inclusion. It should be vertically integrated to harmonize municipal planning with regional infrastructure and transportation investments, as well as foster policy coherence and investments in key economic sectors. Governments must also strengthen local economic development and urban finance, for which they must delegate financial authority to municipal governments, thus allowing them to administer public services. By introducing policies that transform consumer behavior, municipal authorities can radically reduce waste and support consumption patterns that facilitate circularity. Interventions can encompass programs that value organic matter (such as that from wastewater and food waste), generate income from energy and compost production, and incentivize the collection, recycling, reuse, and reconversion of used consumer items. United Nations Photo / Kibae Park
SHAPING THE TRENDS OF OUR TIME 9 Andy Kelly / unsplash

10 REPORT OF THE UN NETWORK OF ECONOMISTS FOR THE 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNITED NATIONS - SUMMARY Digital dividends coexist with digital divides, therefore, it is important to establish policies that lay the foundations for an inclusive digital economy and society. To harness digital dividends, updated policies and regulatory frameworks will be needed in several areas, such as innovation, financing, connectivity, labor markets, competition, and governance of the development and use of technologies. This requires immediate action not only by each of the countries, but also by the international community to support developing countries, especially the least developed ones, to adopt cutting-edge technological advances. To create effective innovation systems, it is necessary to develop capacities and connections between the key actors, strengthen the regulatory and policy frameworks, build institutional and governance systems, support business ecosystems and facilitate access to human and financial capital. Financing policies should cover various aspects of innovation, such as research, product design and development, as well as the adoption of new technologies, technological extension services and training. It will probably be necessary to resort to a mix of instruments, including innovative financing mechanisms. Digital connectivity policy to expand digital infrastructure requires coordination between various stakeholders: governments, international organizations, local governments, communication service providers, hardware and software creators, digital content service providers, civil society and the various groups that oversee protocols and standards for digital networks. Policies to mitigate the negative consequences of digitization should include fast and flexible information and communication technology standards capable of safeguarding and protecting consumers and infrastructure, without hindering innovation or investment in new digital technologies. Data and digitization policies to protect and optimize the value of the digital economy can encompass aspects such as national data strategies, protections of people's rights, open data guidelines, standards for the interoperability of data functions and promotion of skills relevant to the data economy. Governments should deal with existing and emerging barriers that hinder the growth of their domestic data markets; help companies define strategies to extract and exploit their data; address the growing market concentration and dominant position in the data economy; improve consumer protection; and manage the cross-border flow of data. Digital technologies 
SHAPING THE TRENDS OF OUR TIME 11 Inequalities
There is no single set of inequality reduction policies that can be applied to all countries and in all contexts. At the national level, any comprehensive strategy to combat inequality should promote equal opportunities, increase redistribution and fight discrimination, with the aim of reducing inequality in all its dimensions. The first of these pillars includes policies that aim towards the expansion of capabilities and, therefore, the promotion of equal access to opportunities. The second encompasses policies that affect the redistribution of income, wages and benefits. While the policies of the first group should alter the distribution of market income, those of the second group should affect the distribution of available income. The third pillar consists of policies that seek to combat prejudice and discrimination, as well as promote the participation of disadvantaged groups in economic, social and political life. Furthermore, in an interconnected world, the formulation of national policies is increasingly restricted by decisions that are made outside of their own borders. At this decisive moment, multilateralism is under enormous pressure, but cooperation between countries remains fundamental, especially because the consequences of an increase in inequalities transcend national borders. Dmitrii Melnikov / Alamy Stock Photo
12 REPORT OF THE UN NETWORK OF ECONOMISTS FOR THE 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNITED NATIONS - SUMMARY Conclusions and key perspectives for the United Nations
Megatrends generate adverse effects due to deficiencies or resounding policy failures. In the future, the United Nations can facilitate the formulation of responses to megatrends in a way that fosters the creation of internal political consensus on the adoption of sustainable measures. In this way, the United Nations can help mobilize the global assistance needed for the various countries, especially those with fewer resources. In the area of climate change, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change will continue to guide coordinated mitigation and adaptation actions on a global scale. The United Nations plays a fundamental role in the promotion of climate fund mobilization and provides essential technical assistance to countries as they prepare and update national contributions and implementation plans in accordance with the Paris Agreement. Important international environmental conventions on biodiversity, desertification and chemicals, as well as several other agreements reached under the auspices of the United Nations, serve as a guide to Member States to address a wide variety of challenges related to biodiversity and the environment. The United Nations constitutes the definitive source of information about demographic changes. This capacity can be further leveraged to deepen the understanding of the driving forces, advantages and disadvantages, and the policies that can shape demographic trajectories over time. The United Nations can facilitate a public debate on policies to ensure that population trends generate potential demographic dividends, and help countries anticipate and implement changes in policies. This can be especially valuable in cases where the necessary changes are opposed to well-established traditions and ingrained social norms. Platforms such as the Global Urban Observatory and the Urban Prosperity Index of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) provide fundamental data for the understanding and the taking of effective actions in favor of sustainable urbanization. The United Nations also plays an essential role in supporting countries and cities to implement the New Urban Agenda, a roadmap to follow the appropriate policies, planning and financing. In addition, it supports strategic alliances and multi-sector consultations, such as the World Urban Forum, which drive sustainable urbanization. As technology advances, its use must be consistent with universally recognized ethical and human rights standards. The United Nations occupies a unique position to facilitate dialogue between stakeholders and develop a global pact based on agreed principles with a view to managing cutting-edge technologies. This can bring together Member States and all interested parties in order to forge a consensus on ethical and legal standards, especially for research and development. The 75th anniversary of the United Nations in 2020 presents an opportunity for a new "global commitment to digital cooperation" that enshrines goals, principles and priority actions. There is reliable evidence of everything that has and has not worked to reduce inequality. In general, inaction is not due to a lack of technical assistance or, in many cases, sufficient capacity. Frequently, the mobilization of support for policy responses against inequality crashes against a wall of particular interests. The United Nations can help governments overcome political constraints, collect disaggregated data to assess the scope and nature of inequalities, and measure the success of interventions to reduce them. The United Nations, in its capacity as the most important multilateral forum in the fight against inequalities—and, in particular, through its Commission on the Legal and Social Status of Women—can reinforce the international consensus to end the most damaging and widespread inequality of all: the discriminatory treatment of girls and women. SHAPING THE TRENDS OF OUR TIME 13