Banco Santander, S.A. (“Banco Santander” or the “Bank”), in compliance with the Securities 
Market legislation, hereby communicates the following:

INSIDE INFORMATION.
In application of the Bank’s current shareholder remuneration policy, consisting of a total 
shareholder remuneration target of c. 50% of the Group’s underlying profit, split approximately 
in equal parts in cash dividend payments and share buybacks, the board of directors approved to 
implement a share repurchase programme for an amount equivalent to c. 25% of the Group’s 
underlying profit in the second half of 2024 (i.e. a programme of approximately 1,587 million 
euros). The appropriate regulatory authorization for the new programme has already been 
obtained and its execution will therefore commence from tomorrow as detailed below. 

Second Buy-Back Programme for 2024 results.
The Buy-Back Programme will be executed pursuant to the resolutions adopted by the general 
shareholders’ meeting held on 31 March 2023 and will have the following characteristics:
- Purpose of the Buy-Back Programme: to reduce the Bank’s share capital through the 
redemption of the shares acquired under the Programme in the share capital reduction 
approved by the 2024 Annual Shareholders' Meeting under item 5ºC of the agenda and/or, 
where applicable, the capital reduction that will be submitted to the approval of the 2025 
Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders.
- Maximum investment: the Buy-Back Programme will have a maximum monetary amount of 
1,587 million euros.
- Maximum number of shares: The maximum number of shares that may be acquired pursuant 
to the Programme will depend on the average price at which they are acquired but will not 
exceed 1,413,743,296 shares. Assuming that the average purchase price at which shares are 
acquired pursuant to the Programme were 5.00 euros, the maximum number of shares that 
would be acquired would be 317,400,000 (c. 2.10% of the Bank’s share capital.
- Other conditions: shares will be purchased at market price, subject to the following 
restrictions:
o The Bank may not purchase shares at a price higher than the greater of the following two: 
(a) the price of the last independent trade, or (b) the highest current independent 
purchase bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
o The Bank may not purchase on any trading day more than 25% of the average daily 
volume of the Bank’s shares on the trading venue on which the purchase is carried out. 
The average daily volume will be based on the average daily volume traded in the twenty 
(20) business days preceding the date of each purchase.
- Indicative duration of the Buy-Back Programme: from 6 February 2025 to 27 June 2025. 
However, the Bank reserves the right to terminate the Buy-Back Programme if, prior to its 
expiry date, the maximum monetary amount is reached or if any other circumstances so 
advise.
- Execution of the Buy-Back Programme: the Programme will be executed by the team that, in 
accordance with the Bank’s treasury stock policy, is responsible for the execution of treasury 
shares transactions. Acquisitions under the Buy-Back Programme may be made in the 
Spanish Automated Quotation System (Mercado Continuo), as well as in Turquoise Europe, 
DXE Europe and Aquis Exchange Europe.
The interruption, termination or modification of the Buy-Back Programme will be duly 
communicated to the Spanish National Securities Market Commission (Comisión Nacional del 
Mercado de Valores). Transactions under the Buy-Back Programme will be publicly disclosed 
within 7 daily market sessions following the date of their execution.
The decision on the payment of the final gross cash dividend against the 2024 results that will 
be submitted to the annual general shareholders’ meeting is expected to be approved by the 
Board on February 25th. The implementation of the remainder of the shareholder remuneration 
policy for 2024 is subject to the appropriate corporate and regulatory approvals.

Non-IFRS and alternative performance measures.
This document contains financial information prepared according to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
and taken from our consolidated financial statements, as well as alternative performance measures (APMs) as defined 
in the Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) 
on 5 October 2015, and other non-IFRS measures. The APMs and non-IFRS measures were calculated with information 
from Grupo Santander; however, they are neither defined or detailed in the applicable financial reporting framework nor 
audited or reviewed by our auditors. We use these APMs and non-IFRS measures when planning, monitoring and 
evaluating our performance. We consider them to be useful metrics for our management and investors to compare 
operating performance between periods. APMs we use are presented unless otherwise specified on a constant FX basis, 
which is computed by adjusting comparative period reported data for the effects of foreign currency translation 
differences, which distort period-on-period comparisons. Nonetheless, the APMs and non-IFRS measures are 
supplemental information; their purpose is not to substitute IFRS measures. Furthermore, companies in our industry and 
others may calculate or use APMs and non-IFRS measures differently, thus making them less useful for comparison 
purposes. APMs using ESG labels have not been calculated in accordance with the Taxonomy Regulation or with the 
indicators for principal adverse impact in SFDR. For further details on APMs and Non-IFRS Measures, including their 
definition or a reconciliation between any applicable management indicators and the financial data presented in the 
consolidated financial statements prepared under IFRS, please see the 2023 Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on 21 February 2024 
(https://www.santander.com/content/dam/santander-com/en/documentos/informacion-sobre-resultadossemestrales-y-anuales-suministrada-a-la-sec/2024/sec-2023-annual-20-f-2023-en.pdf), as well as the section 
“Alternative performance measures” of this Banco Santander, S.A. (Santander) Q4 2024 Financial Report, published on 5
February 2025 (https://www.santander.com/en/shareholders-and-investors/financial-and-economicinformation#quarterly-results). Underlying measures, which are included in this document, are non-IFRS measures. 
The businesses included in each of our geographic segments and the accounting principles under which their results are 
presented here may differ from the businesses included and local applicable accounting principles of our public 
subsidiaries in such geographies. Accordingly, the results of operations and trends shown for our geographic segments 
may differ materially from those of such subsidiaries.

Forward-looking statements.
Santander hereby warns that this document contains “forward-looking statements” as per the meaning of the U.S. Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements can be understood through words and expressions like 
“expect”, “project”, “anticipate”, “should”, “intend”, “probability”, “risk”, “VaR”, “RoRAC”, “RoRWA”, “TNAV”, “target”, 
“goal”, “objective”, “estimate”, “future”, “commitment”, “commit”, “focus”, “pledge” and similar expressions. They 
include (but are not limited to) statements on future business development, shareholder remuneration policy and NFI. 
While these forward-looking statements represent our judgement and future expectations concerning our business 
developments and results may differ materially from those anticipated, expected, projected or assumed in forwardlooking statements.
In particular, forward looking statements are based on current expectations and future estimates about Santander’s and 
third-parties’ operations and businesses and address matters that are uncertain to varying degrees and may change, 
including, but not limited to (a) expectations, targets, objectives, strategies and goals relating to environmental, social, 
safety and governance performance, including expectations regarding future execution of Santander’s and third-parties'
(including governments and other public actors) energy and climate strategies, and the underlying assumptions and 
estimated impacts on Santander’s and third-parties’ businesses related thereto; (b) Santander’s and third-parties’ 
approach, plans and expectations in relation to carbon use and targeted reductions of emissions, which may be affected 
by conflicting interests such as energy security; (c) changes in operations or investments under existing or future 
environmental laws and regulations; (d) changes in rules and regulations, regulatory requirements and internal policies, 
including those related to climate-related initiatives; (e) our own decisions and actions including those affecting or 
changing our practices, operations, priorities, strategies, policies or procedures; (f) events that lead to damage to our 
reputation and brand; (g) exposure to operational losses, including as a result of cyberattacks, data breaches or other 
security incidents; and (h) the uncertainty over the scope of actions that may be required by us, governments and others 
to achieve goals relating to climate, environmental and social matters, as well as the evolving nature of underlying 
science and industry and governmental standards and regulations.
In addition, the important factors described in this document and other risk factors, uncertainties or contingencies 
detailed in our most recent Form 20-F and subsequent 6-Ks filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, as well as other unknown 
or unpredictable factors, could affect our future development and results and could lead to outcomes materially different 
from what our forward-looking statements anticipate, expect, project or assume.
Forward-looking statements are therefore aspirational, should be regarded as indicative, preliminary and for illustrative 
purposes only, speak only as of the date of this document, are informed by the knowledge, information and views 
available on such date and are subject to change without notice. Santander is not required to update or revise any 
forward-looking statements, regardless of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable 
law. Santander does not accept any liability in connection with forward-looking statements except where such liability 
cannot be limited under overriding provisions of applicable law. 

Not a securities offer. 
This document and the information it contains does not constitute an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy 
any securities.

Past performance does not indicate future outcomes. 
Statements about historical performance or growth rates must not be construed as suggesting that future performance, 
share price or results (including earnings per share) will necessarily be the same or higher than in a previous period. 
Nothing in this document should be taken as a profit and loss forecast. 