Banco Santander, S.A. (“Banco Santander” or the “Bank”), in accordance with Securities 
Market legislation, hereby announces the following:

INSIDE INFORMATION. 
In application of the Bank’s current shareholder remuneration policy, consisting of a target total 
shareholder remuneration of c. 50% of the Group's ordinary profit, distributed approximately 
equally between cash dividend and share buybacks, the board of directors has approved the 
implementation of a share buyback program to which an amount equivalent to c. 25% of the Group's 
ordinary profit in the second half of 2024 would be allocated (i.e., a program for an approximate amount of 1,587 million 
euros), for which it has already obtained the relevant regulatory authorization 
and which will begin to be executed as of tomorrow as indicated below. 

Second Share Buyback Program relating to the 2024 results. 
The Share Buyback Program will be carried out under the agreements adopted by the general 
shareholders' meeting of March 31, 2023 and will have the following characteristics:
- Purpose of the Share Buyback Program: to reduce the Bank's share capital by 
canceling the shares acquired in the Program, in execution of the capital reduction 
approved by the Ordinary General Shareholders' Meeting of 2024 under item 5ºC of the agenda and/or, 
where appropriate, of the capital reduction that will be submitted to the approval of the 
Ordinary General Shareholders' Meeting of 2025. 
- Maximum investment: the Share Buyback Program will have a maximum monetary amount of 
1,587 million euros. 
- Maximum number of shares: the maximum number of shares to be acquired in execution 
of the Program will depend on the average price at which the purchases take place, but will not 
exceed 1,413,743,296 shares. Assuming that the average share purchase price in 
execution of the program is 5.00 euros, the maximum number of shares that 
would be acquired would be 317,400,000 (c. 2.10% of the Bank's share capital). 
- Other conditions: the shares will be purchased at market price, subject to the following 
restrictions:
  o The Bank may not acquire shares at a price higher than the higher of the following: 
(a) the price of the last independent transaction, or (b) the highest 
independent bid at that time on the trading venue where the purchase is made. 
o The Bank may not purchase on any trading day more than 25% of the average daily 
volume of the Bank's shares on the trading venue where the purchase is made. 
The average daily volume will be based on the average daily volume traded in the twenty 
(20) business days prior to the date of each purchase. 
- Indicative duration of the Share Buyback Program: from February 6, 2025 to June 27, 2025. 
However, the Bank reserves the right to terminate the Share Buyback Program if, prior to its 
expiry date, it reaches the maximum monetary amount or if any other circumstance so 
advises. 
- Execution of the Share Buyback Program: The Program will be executed by the team that, in 
accordance with the Bank's treasury stock policy, is responsible for the execution of own 
share transactions. Acquisitions under the Share Buyback Program may be made on the 
Spanish Continuous Market, as well as on Turquoise Europe, 
DXE Europe and Aquis Exchange Europe. 
The interruption, termination or modification of the Share Buyback Program will be duly 
communicated to the Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores. 
The operations carried out under the Share Buyback Program will be publicly communicated 
within 7 daily market sessions following their completion. 
The decision on the supplementary cash dividend charged to the 2024 results, which will 
be submitted to the Ordinary General Shareholders' Meeting of 2025, is expected to be approved by the 
Board on February 25. The implementation of the rest of the shareholder remuneration 
policy charged to 2024 is subject to the corresponding internal and regulatory approvals. 

Non-IFRS financial indicators and alternative performance measures. 
In addition to the financial information prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
and derived from our financial statements, this document includes certain alternative performance measures (APMs), 
as defined in the Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures published by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) 
on October 5, 2015, as well as certain non-IFRS financial indicators. The financial measures contained in this document that are considered APMs and non-IFRS financial indicators have been prepared 
from Grupo Santander's financial information, but are not defined or detailed in the applicable financial reporting framework and have not been 
audited or reviewed by our auditors. We use these APMs and non-IFRS financial indicators to plan, monitor and 
evaluate our performance. We believe that these APMs and non-IFRS financial indicators are useful to facilitate the comparison of 
operating performance between periods by management and investors. The APMs we use are presented, unless otherwise specified, on a constant exchange rate basis, 
which is calculated by adjusting the reported data for the comparative period for the effects of foreign currency translation 
differences, which distort comparisons between periods. However, these APMs and non-IFRS financial indicators are considered 
supplementary information and are not intended to replace IFRS measures. In addition, other companies, including some in our industry, 
may calculate such measures differently, which reduces their usefulness for comparative 
purposes. APMs that use ESG designations are not calculated in accordance with the Taxonomy Regulation or the 
adverse impact indicators of the SFDR. For more information on the APMs and non-IFRS financial indicators used, including their 
definition or a reconciliation between the applicable management indicators and the financial information presented in the 
consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS, please refer to the 2023 Annual Report in Form 20-F, filed with the 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on February 21, 2024 
(https://www.santander.com/content/dam/santandercom/es/documentos/informacion-sobre-resultados-semestrales-y-anuales-suministrada-a-la-sec/2024/sec-2023-annual-20-f-2023-disponible-solo-en-ingles-es.pdf), as well as the 
Alternative Performance Measures section of this Banco Santander, S.A. ("Santander") 4Q 2024 Financial Report, published on 
February 5, 2025 (https://www.santander.com/es/accionistas-e-inversores/informacion-economico-financiera#resultados-trimestrales). Ordinary measures, which are included in this document, are non-IFRS measures. 
The businesses included in each of our geographic segments and the accounting principles under which their results are 
presented here may differ from the businesses included and the local accounting principles applicable in our 
subsidiaries in those geographies. Consequently, the results of operations and trends shown for our geographic segments 
may differ materially from those of such subsidiaries. 

Forecasts and estimates. 
Santander warns that this document contains statements that may be considered 'forward-looking statements' as defined in the Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 of the United States. These statements can be identified with terms such as 
'foresee', 'project', 'predict', 'anticipate', 'should', 'intend', 'probability', 'risk', 'VaR', 'RoRAC', 'RoRWA', 'TNAV', 'objective', 
'goal', 'estimate', 'future', 'commitment', 'commit', 'focus', 'endeavor' and similar expressions. These statements are found throughout this document and 
include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the future development of our business, our shareholder remuneration policy and the INF. 
While these forward-looking statements represent our judgment and future forecasts regarding our business, actual 
developments and results may differ materially from those foreseen, expected, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. 
Specifically, the forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and future estimates about the operations and businesses of Santander and 
third parties and address issues that are uncertain to varying degrees, and that may change, 
including, but not limited to, (a) expectations, goals, objectives and strategies related to environmental, social, 
safety and governance performance, including expectations about the future execution of the energy and climate strategies of Santander and third parties 
(including governments and other public entities), and the assumptions and 
estimated impacts on the businesses of Santander and third parties related thereto; (b) the 
approach, plans and expectations of Santander and third parties in relation to the use of coal and expected emission reductions; which may be affected 
by conflicting interests such as energy security; (c) changes in operations or investments under existing or future 
environmental regulations; (d) and changes in regulations, regulatory requirements and internal policies, 
including those related to climate-related initiatives; (e) our own decisions and actions, including those that affect or 
change our practices, operations, priorities, strategies, policies or procedures; (f) events that damage our 
reputation and our brand; (g) exposure to operational losses, including from cyberattacks, data loss or other 
security incidents; and (h) uncertainty about the scope of actions that the Group, governments or others may have to take 
to achieve climate, environmental and social objectives, as well as about the changing nature of 
knowledge and standards and industrial and governmental standards on the matter. 
In addition, the important factors mentioned in this document and other risk factors, uncertainties or contingencies 
detailed in our latest Annual Report under Form 20-F and subsequent Form 6-Ks registered or filed with the SEC, as well as other unknown 
or unpredictable factors, could affect our performance and future results and cause situations that result in the future to differ significantly 
from those that the forward-looking statements anticipate, expect, project or assume. 
The forward-looking statements are therefore aspirations, should be considered indicative, preliminary and for illustrative 
purposes only, refer only to the date on which this document is published, are based on the knowledge, information and opinions 
available on that date and are subject to change without notice. Santander is under no obligation to update or revise any 
forward-looking statements, regardless of the appearance of new information, future events or any other circumstance, unless required by applicable 
law. Santander accepts no liability in relation to the forward-looking statements except in cases where it 
cannot be limited in accordance with mandatory rules. 

It does not constitute an offer of securities. 
Neither this document nor the information contained herein constitutes an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to purchase 
securities. 

Past performance is not indicative of future results. 
Statements regarding historical performance or growth rates are not intended to imply that future performance, 
share price or future results (including earnings per share) for a given period will necessarily match or exceed those of a prior year. 
Nothing in this document should be construed as a profit forecast.