Banco Santander, S.A. (“Banco Santander” or “Banco”), in accordance with the legislation of the Securities Market, communicates the following:

PRIVILEGED INFORMATION. In application of the current remuneration policy to the shareholder of the Bank, consisting of a remuneration objective to the total shareholder of c. 50% of the ordinary profit of the Group, distributed approximately equally between cash dividend and share buy-backs, the Board of Directors has approved a programme of repurchase of shares to which would be allocated an amount equivalent to c. 25% of the ordinary profit of the Group in the second half of 2024 (i.e. a program for an amount of approximately 1,587 million euros), for which it has already obtained the relevant regulatory authorization and which will begin to be implemented from tomorrow as indicated below.

The second buy-back programme concerning the results of 2024. The buy-back programme shall be carried out in accordance with the agreements adopted by the general meeting of shareholders of 31 March 2023 and shall have the following characteristics: - Purpose of the buy-back programme: to reduce the share capital of the Bank by amortizing the shares acquired in the programme, in execution of the capital reduction approved by the Ordinary Shareholders' Meeting of 2024 under point 5oC of the agenda and/or, where appropriate, of the capital reduction to be submitted to the approval of the Ordinary Shareholders' Meeting of 2025. - Maximum investment: the buy-back programme shall have a maximum monetary amount of 1,587 million euros. - Maximum number of shares: the maximum number of shares to be acquired in execution of the programme will depend on the average price at which the purchases take place, but shall not exceed 1,413,743,296 shares. Assuming that the average purchase price of shares in execution of the programme would be 5.00 euros, the maximum number of shares to be acquired would be 317,400,000 (c. 2,10% of the upper share price).

The average daily volume shall be based on the average daily volume negotiated in the twenty (20) working days prior to the date of each purchase. - Indicative duration of the buy-back programme: from 6 February 2025 until 27 June 2025. However, the Bank reserves the right to complete the buy-back programme if, prior to its expiry date, it reaches the maximum monetary amount or if any other circumstances so advised. - Implementation of the buy-back programme: The programme shall be executed by the team which, in accordance with the Bank's self-carrying policy, is responsible for the execution of its own shares operations. Acquisitions under the buy-back programme may be carried out in the Spanish Continuum Market, as well as in Turkey Europe, DXE Europe and Aquís Exchange Europe. The interruption, termination or modification of the buy-back programme shall be duly communicated to the National Securities Market Commission. The transactions carried out under the buy-back programme shall be publicly reported within the next 7 market sessions following day to be completed. The decision on the supplementary charge with cash split of 2025.

Non-IFRS financial indicators and alternative performance measures. In addition to the financial information prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and derived from our financial statements, this document includes certain alternative performance measures (MAR), as defined in the Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures published by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) on 5 October 2015, as well as certain non-IFRS financial indicators. The financial measures contained in this document that are considered non-IFRS financial indicators and MEAs have been developed on the basis of the financial information of Grupo Santander, but are not defined or detailed in the applicable financial reporting framework and have not been audited or reviewed by our auditors. We use these non-IFRS and financial indicators to plan, monitor and evaluate our performance. We consider that these non-IFRS and financial indicators are useful for providing the management team and investors with the comparison of operational performance between periods. The MEAs we use are presented, unless otherwise specified, on a basis of constant exchange rate, which is calculated by adjusting the reported data of the comparative period for the effects of the foreign currency conversion differences, which it reduces the financial indicators, which we use, unless we use them.

MARs using ASG designations are not calculated in accordance with the Taxonomy Regulation or the adverse impact indicators of the SFDR. For further information on the MEAs and non-NIIF financial indicators used, including their definition or reconciliation between the applicable management indicators and the financial information presented in the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS, reference should be made to the Annual Report of 2023 in Form 20-F, presented in the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on 21 February 2024 (), as well as to the Alternative Performance Measures section of this Financial Report 4T of 2024 of Banco Santander, S.A. (“Santander”), published on 5 February 2025 (). The ordinary measures, which are included in this document, are non-NIIF measures. Businesses included in each of our geographical segments and the accounting principles under which their results are presented here may differ from the businesses included and local accounting principles applicable in our subsidiaries in those geographies. Accordingly, the results of the operations and trends shown for our geographical segments may differ.

Forecasts and estimates. Santander warns that this document contains manifestations that can be considered ‘provisions and estimates demonstrations’ (forward-looking statements) as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995). Such demonstrations can be identified with terms such as ‘prever’, ‘project’, ‘predict’, ‘anticipate’, ‘should’, ‘pretend’, ‘probability’, ‘risk’, ‘VAR’, ‘RORAC’, ‘RoRWA’, ‘TNAV’, ‘objective’, ‘meta’, ‘estimate’, ‘future’, ‘compromise’, ‘compromise’, ‘compromise’, ‘concentrate’, ‘concentrate’, ‘tire’ and similar expressions. These manifestations are found throughout this document and include, as an enunciative but not limiting, statements relating to the future development of our business, to our policy of retribution to shareholders and INF’s and forecasts.

Specifically, the statements on forecasts and estimates are based on current expectations and future estimates on the operations and businesses of Santander and third parties and address issues that are uncertain to varying degrees, and that may change, including, but not limited to, (a) expectations, goals, objectives and strategies related to environmental, social, security and governance performance, including expectations about the future implementation of Santander's and third-party energy and climate strategies (including governments and other public entities), and assumptions and estimated impacts on Santander's and related third-party business; (b) this approach, plans and expectations of Santander and third-party in relation to the use of coal and projected emission reductions; that may be affected by conflicting interests such as energy security; (c) changes in operations or investments under existing or future environmental regulations; (d) and changes in regulations, regulatory requirements and/or internal policies, including those related to climate-related initiatives; (e) our own decisions and actions, including those affecting or changing our practices, operations, priorities, strategies, policies or procedures; (f) events that may make our reputation and/loss;

The statements on forecasts and estimates are therefore aspirations, should be considered indicative, preliminary and for merely illustrative purposes, refer only to the date on which this document is published, are based on the knowledge, information and opinions available on that date and are subject to change without notice. Santander is not obliged to update or revise any statements on forecasts or estimates, regardless of the appearance of new information, future events or any other circumstance, unless required by applicable law. Santander accepts no liability for statements on forecasts and estimates except in cases where it cannot be limited under mandatory rules.

It does not constitute an offer of securities; neither this document nor the information it contains constitute an offer of sale nor a request for an offer of purchase of securities.

Past performance is not indicative of future results. Declarations regarding historical performance or growth rates are not intended to imply that the future return, share quote or future results (including profit per share) of a given period will necessarily coincide or exceed those of a previous financial year. Nothing in this document should be interpreted as a profit forecast.