Banco Santander, S.A. (“Banco Santander” or the “Bank”), in accordance with the Securities Market legislation, hereby communicates the following:.

INSIDER INFORMATION. In application of the current shareholder remuneration policy of the Bank, consisting of a total shareholder remuneration objective of c. 50% of the Group's ordinary profit, distributed approximately in equal parts between cash dividend and share buy-backs, the Board of Directors has approved the implementation of a share buy-back program to which an amount equivalent to c. 25% of the Group's ordinary profit in the second half of 2024 would be allocated (i.e. a program for an amount of approximately EUR 1,587 million), for which it has already obtained the relevant regulatory authorisation and which will begin to be executed as of tomorrow as follows.

Second Share Buyback Programme relating to 2024 results. The Buyback Programme will be carried out under the agreements adopted by the General Shareholders' Meeting of 31 March 2023 and will have the following characteristics: - Purpose of the Buyback Programme: to reduce the Bank's share capital by the cancellation of shares acquired under the Programme, in implementation of the capital reduction approved by the General Ordinary Shareholders' Meeting of 2024 under item 5ºC of the agenda and/or, where applicable, the capital reduction that will be submitted for approval by the General Ordinary Shareholders' Meeting of 2025. - Maximum investment: the Buyback Programme will have a maximum monetary amount of EUR 1,587 million. - Maximum number of shares: the maximum number of shares to be acquired in implementation of the Programme will depend on the average purchase price, but will not exceed 1,413,743,296 shares. Assuming that the average purchase price of shares in implementation of the programme was EUR 5.00, the maximum number of shares that would be acquired would be 317,400,000 (c. 2.10% of the Bank's share capital). - Other conditions: shares will be purchased at market price, subject to the following restrictions: o The Bank will not be able to purchase shares at a price higher than the highest of the following: (a) the price of the last independent transaction, or (b) the highest independent bid at that time in the trading venue where the purchase is made. 2 o The Bank will not be able to purchase on any trading day more than 25% of the daily average volume of the Bank's shares in the trading venue where the purchase is made. The daily average volume will be based on the average daily volume traded in the twenty (20) business days prior to the date of each purchase. - Indicative duration of the Buyback Programme: from 6 February 2025 to 27 June 2025. However, the Bank reserves the right to terminate the Buyback Programme if, prior to its expiry date, it reaches the maximum monetary amount or if any other circumstance so advises. - Execution of the Buyback Programme: The Programme will be executed by the team responsible for the execution of own share transactions in accordance with the Bank's self-tender policy. Purchases under the Buyback Programme may be made on the Spanish Continuous Market, as well as on Turquoise Europe, DXE Europe and Aquis Exchange Europe. The interruption, termination or modification of the Buyback Programme will be duly communicated to the National Securities Market Commission. Transactions carried out under the Buyback Programme will be publicly disclosed within the next 7 trading sessions following their execution. It is expected that the decision on the cash supplementary dividend relating to 2024 results, which will be submitted to the General Ordinary Shareholders' Meeting of 2025, will be approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February. The implementation of the rest of the shareholder remuneration policy relating to 2024 is subject to the corresponding internal and regulatory approvals.

Non-IFRS financial measures and alternative performance measures. In addition to the financial information prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and derived from our financial statements, this document includes certain alternative performance measures (APMs), as defined in the Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures published by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) on 5 October 2015, as well as certain non-IFRS financial measures. The financial measures contained in this document that are considered APMs and non-IFRS financial measures have been prepared from the financial information of Grupo Santander, but they are not defined or detailed in the applicable financial information framework and have not been audited or reviewed by our auditors. We use these APMs and non-IFRS financial measures to plan, monitor and evaluate our performance. We consider that these APMs and non-IFRS financial measures are useful to facilitate comparison of operational performance between periods. The APMs that we use are presented, unless otherwise specified, on a constant currency basis, which is calculated by adjusting the reported comparative period data for the effects of foreign currency translation differences, which distort comparisons between periods. However, these APMs and non-IFRS financial measures are considered as supplementary information and are not intended to replace IFRS measures. In addition, other companies, including some in our sector, may calculate such measures differently, which reduces their usefulness for comparative purposes. The APMs using ASG designations are not calculated in accordance with the Taxonomy Regulation or the adverse impact indicators of the SFDR. For more information on the APMs and non-IFRS financial measures used, including their definition or a reconciliation between the applicable management measures and the financial information presented in the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS, you should refer to the Annual Report 2023 in Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on 21 February 2024 (https://www.santander.com/content/dam/santandercom/es/documentos/informacion-sobre-resultados-semestrales-y-anuales-suministrada-a-la-sec/2024/sec-2023- annual-20-f-2023-disponible-solo-en-ingles-es.pdf), as well as the Alternative Performance Measures section of this 4T 2024 Financial Report of Banco Santander, S.A. (“Santander”), published on 5 February 2025 (https://www.santander.com/es/accionistas-e-inversores/informacion-economico-financiera#resultados-trimestrales). The ordinary measures, which are included in this document, are non-IFRS measures. The businesses included in each of our geographic segments and the accounting principles under which their results are presented here may differ from the businesses included and the local accounting principles applicable in our subsidiaries in those geographies. Consequently, the results of operations and trends shown for our geographic segments may differ materially from those of such subsidiaries.

Forward-looking statements. Santander warns that this document contains statements that may be considered ‘forward-looking statements’ according to the definition in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 of the United States. These statements can be identified with terms such as ‘forecast’, ‘project’, ‘predict’, ‘anticipate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘aim’, ‘probability’, ‘risk’, ‘VaR’, ‘RoRAC’, ‘RoRWA’, ‘TNAV’, ‘target’, ‘goal’, ‘estimate’, ‘future’, ‘commitment’, ‘undertake’ and similar expressions. These statements are found throughout this document and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the future development of our business, our policy of remunerating shareholders and INF. While these forward-looking statements represent our judgment and future expectations regarding our business, the actual evolution and results may differ significantly from those anticipated, expected, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. In particular, the forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and future estimates about the operations and businesses of Santander and third parties and address issues that are uncertain to varying degrees, and that may change, including, but not limited to, (a) expectations, goals, objectives and strategies related to environmental, social, safety and governance performance, including expectations about the future execution of energy and climate strategies of Santander and third parties (including governments and other public entities), and the hypotheses and estimated impacts on the businesses of Santander and third parties related thereto; (b) the approach, plans and expectations of Santander and third parties regarding the use of coal and the expected reductions in emissions; which may be affected by conflicting interests such as energy security; (c) changes in operations or investments under existing or future environmental legislation; (d) and changes in legislation, regulatory requirements and internal policies, including those related to initiatives related to climate; (e) our own decisions and actions, including those that affect or change our practices, operations, priorities, strategies, policies or procedures; (f) events that harm our reputation and brand; (g) exposure to operational losses, including from cyber attacks, data loss or other security incidents; and (h) uncertainty about the scope of actions that the Group, governments or other parties may have to take to achieve climate, environmental and social objectives, as well as about the changing nature of knowledge and industry and government standards and norms in this regard. Additionally, the important factors mentioned in this document and other risk factors, uncertainties or contingencies detailed in our latest Annual Report under Form 20-F and subsequent Form 6-Ks registered or filed with the SEC, as well as other factors unknown or unforeseeable, could affect our performance and future results and make future situations differ significantly from those anticipated, expected, projected or assumed by the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are therefore aspirational, should be considered indicative, preliminary and for purely illustrative purposes, refer only to the date on which this document is published, are based on the knowledge, information and opinions available on that date and are subject to change without notice. Santander is not obliged to update or revise any forward-looking statements, regardless of the appearance of new information, future events or any other circumstance, except as required by applicable law. Santander accepts no responsibility in relation to forward-looking statements except in cases where it cannot limit itself in accordance with mandatory rules.

It does not constitute an offer of securities. Neither this document nor the information contained herein constitutes an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities.

Past performance is not indicative of future results. Statements regarding past performance or growth rates are not intended to suggest that the future performance, stock price or results of operations (including earnings per share) of any past period will necessarily accrue or exceed those of any future period. Nothing in this document should be construed as a prediction of future earnings.