Treasury Stock Policy

General Secretariat Page 1 of 8

TREASURY STOCK POLICY

Grupo Santander Treasury Stock Policy

General Secretariat Page 2 of 8

CONTENTS

1 INTRODUCTION 3

2 SCOPE 3

3 SCOPE OF APPLICATION AND TRANSPOSITION IN SUBSIDIARIES 3

4 GENERAL PRINCIPLES 4

5 PURPOSES FOR CARRYING OUT TRANSACTIONS 4

6 OPERATIONAL CRITERIA 4

7 GOVERNANCE

8 OWNERSHIP, INTERPRETATION, VALIDITY DATE AND PERIODIC REVIEW
8 Treasury Stock Policy

General Secretariat Page 3 of 8

1 INTRODUCTION

This Treasury Stock Policy (the “Policy”) establishes the general principles, criteria and limits, operating rules and responsibilities, as well as the governance to be followed for the execution and control of the purchase and sale operations of Banco Santander, S.A. shares (the “Bank”). 2 SCOPE

This Policy will apply to any operation carried out on Banco Santander, S.A. shares, whether by the Bank or by any of the companies controlled by it (together with the Bank, the “Grupo Santander” or the “Group”), and regardless of whether they are carried out in regulated markets, in multilateral trading systems, outside the order market, either through blocks or through special operations, or under a repurchase program1. All operations with the Bank's own shares will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of:

• the regulations in force, including in particular the consolidated text of the Law on Capital Companies approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010, of July 2, Law 6/2023, of March 17, on Securities Markets and Investment Services, Regulation (EU) 596/2014, of April 16, of the European Parliament and of the Council, on market abuse and its respective implementing rules; and, to the extent applicable if the operation is carried out through repurchase programs, Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/1052, of March 8, which develops the regulatory technical standards relating to the conditions applicable to repurchase programs and stabilization measures;

• the agreements adopted by the general shareholders' meeting and the board of directors of the Bank regarding treasury stock; and

• the criteria included in this Policy, without prejudice to the exceptions that may be provided for therein. 3 SCOPE OF APPLICATION AND TRANSPOSITION IN SUBSIDIARIES

This Policy is prepared by Banco Santander, S.A., as the parent company of Grupo Santander, establishing the rules to be applied to the entire Group. The entities of the Group must adopt it and are responsible for their internal regulations, and must prepare and approve in their respective governing bodies the internal regulations that allow the application of the provisions contained in the Policy, with the strictly necessary adjustments, if any, that guarantee compliance with the legislation and local regulatory requirements and expectations. 1 Operations on the Bank's shares carried out in the development of market risk hedging activities or facilitation of intermediation or hedging for clients will not be considered treasury stock for these purposes nor will they be subject to this Policy. Treasury Stock Policy

General Secretariat Page 4 of 8

4 GENERAL PRINCIPLES

The following general principles of action will be observed in treasury stock operations:

• Protection of the integrity of the financial markets and of investor confidence in them and preservation of the stability of the financial system. • Prohibition of manipulating or attempting to manipulate the market, including in particular the prohibitions of transmitting false or misleading signals about the supply, demand or price of the shares, of fixing prices at an abnormal or artificial level or in general of altering prices through any fictitious mechanism or artifice, as well as of exercising a dominant position over supply or demand. • Prohibition of operating or attempting to operate with privileged information, for which purposes the independence of the unit in charge of executing the Bank's treasury stock operations must be guaranteed. 5 PURPOSES FOR CARRYING OUT TRANSACTIONS

The Bank may carry out operations on its own shares for any of the following purposes:

(i) Facilitate liquidity or supply of securities, as appropriate, in the market for the Bank's shares, giving said market depth and minimizing eventual temporary imbalances between supply and demand. (ii) Take advantage for the benefit of all shareholders of situations of weakness in the price of the shares in relation to the prospects for evolution in the medium term. (iii) Comply with the obligations to deliver shares that the Bank or its Group have with its employees or directors. (iv) Any other purposes that the Bank's board of directors approves at any time within the legal limits and set by the general shareholders' meeting, including, without limitation, reducing the share capital, attending to the exchange of financial instruments or other liabilities exchangeable for Bank shares and acquiring Bank shares for use as consideration in acquisitions and other operations. 6 OPERATIONAL CRITERIA

Treasury stock operations will be carried out in the market according to the following rules regarding their operation. In the event that it is decided to execute treasury stock operations through alternative mechanisms such as repurchase programs, liquidity contracts or other mechanisms to which its own regulation applies, before starting those operations, these mechanisms will be disseminated in accordance with said applicable regulation. In such cases, these rules will not apply to such mechanisms (such as the execution of repurchase programs) as long as they are inconsistent with their specific regulation or in those aspects in which other rules apply that are provided by the bank when establishing such mechanisms (section 2). Treasury Stock Policy

General Secretariat Page 5 of 8

Responsibility for the execution of treasury stock operations

The responsibility for the execution of treasury stock operations lies with the Director of the Investments and Holdings Department. The activity will be isolated as a separate and protected area by the corresponding barriers, so that it does not have any privileged information. No other unit of the Group will carry out operations on the Bank's shares included within the scope of this Policy, except in exceptional cases that must be approved by the person responsible for the management of the treasury stock, or where appropriate, the board or that body or person in whom such authority has been delegated, and in which the execution of the operation in question must be coordinated by the aforementioned person responsible, and without prejudice to the deliveries of shares that the Bank or its Group have to make to its employees or directors, which will be executed by the units obliged to make that delivery under the coordination of the aforementioned person responsible. Information

The Bank will maintain the following information on its website (www.santander.com), under ‘Significant shareholdings and treasury stock’ located within the ‘Shareholders and investors’ section:

(i) The agreement of the Bank's general shareholders' meeting in force by which the treasury stock operation is authorized. (ii) The current version of this Policy. (iii) The identity of the natural person who is responsible for the management of the treasury stock in accordance with section 6.1 above. (iv) The identity of the intermediary through which the treasury stock operation is carried out in the trading center in question. (v) Information on the operations carried out as referred to in section 6.10 below. Execution of treasury stock operations

In general, treasury stock operations may be carried out in regulated markets and in the following multilateral trading systems where Bank shares are traded: DXE Europe, Turquoise Europe and Aquis Exchange Europe. Treasury stock operations will only be carried out in the block market or through other financial instruments2 in exceptional circumstances and for justified cause. In such exceptional cases:

(i) The daily volume limits (section 6.4), price limits (section 6.6) and operating restrictions (section 6.7) will not apply to treasury stock operations in the block market. (ii) The daily volume limits (section 6.4), price limits (section 6.6) and operating restrictions (section 6.7) will apply to treasury stock operations carried out through other financial instruments mutatis mutandis with respect to those carried out in the Continuous Market, taking into account the operating rules of the market in question. 2 Those instruments that are not considered treasury stock, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable legislation, are not subject to this Policy. Treasury Stock Policy

General Secretariat Page 6 of 8

Daily volume limits

In general, the Bank's treasury stock operations, including purchases and sales of shares executed in any trading center, as well as through special operations3, will not exceed 15% of the average daily trading of Bank shares in the 30 previous sessions of the trading center in question. The limit provided in this section may be exceeded, without exceeding 25% of the average daily trading of Bank shares in the 30 previous sessions of the trading center in question, in exceptional circumstances, such as those that produce significant alterations in the volatility or the levels of supply or demand for shares, and for justified cause. Aggregate volume limits

The shares in treasury stock will not exceed the limit approved at any time by the Bank's general shareholders' meeting within the maximum limits provided at any time in the Law on Capital Companies. In addition, the treasury stock balance will not exceed the limit authorized at any time by the European Central Bank. The treasury stock activity will also be subject to the volume limits established by the board of directors or, by delegation, by the executive committee. Price limits

Purchase orders will be formulated at a price no higher than the higher of the following two: (i) the price of the last transaction carried out by independent subjects in the market; and (ii) the highest price contained in a purchase order in the order book. Sale orders will be formulated at a price no lower than the lower of the following two: (i) the price of the last transaction by independent subjects carried out in the market; and (ii) the lowest price contained in a sale order in the order book. In addition, in accordance with the provisions of the general shareholders' meeting, in any case, purchase operations may only be carried out at a price per share (i) minimum of the par value (0.50 euros per share) and (ii) maximum of up to 3 percent higher than the higher of (a) the price of the last independent operation prior to the acquisition in question or (b) the highest independent offer at that time in the trading center where the purchase is made. Operating restrictions

Treasury stock operations must be subject to the following limits:

(i) In order to know the situation of the Bank's share market, the Investments and Holdings Department may collect data from the market members it deems appropriate, although the operations it carries out in the market must be executed through a single intermediary. (ii) All operations on its own shares will be carried out during normal trading hours, except for those singular operations that correspond to any of the

3 For these purposes, "applications" and "takes of record" will be understood as special operations. Treasury Stock Policy

General Secretariat Page 7 of 8

causes provided for carrying out special operations, in which case the rules applicable to such special operations will apply. (iii) Purchase and sale orders will not be entered simultaneously. (iv) Purchase or sale orders will not be entered during the opening or closing auctions, except in exceptional cases, for justified cause and taking extreme caution to avoid that such orders decisively influence the evolution of the auction price. In those exceptional cases: (i) the accumulated volume of purchase and sale orders entered must not exceed 10% of the theoretical volume resulting from the auction at the time of entering the orders; (ii) market orders or best-price orders will not be entered, except in exceptional and justified circumstances; (iii) the price of purchase orders will not be higher than the higher between the theoretical equilibrium price of the auction at the time of entering the order and the price of the last transaction executed in the order market before the start of the auction and (iv) the price of sale orders will not be lower than the lower between the theoretical equilibrium price of the auction at the time of entering the order and the price of the last transaction executed in the order market before the start of the auction. (v) Purchase or sale orders will not be entered during the auction period prior to the lifting of the suspension of trading of the Bank's shares, if this has occurred, until operations have been crossed in the value. Orders not executed when the suspension is declared may not be modified during the auction phase. Black-out

Treasury stock will not be traded during the period of 15 calendar days prior to the publication of the Bank's periodic financial information (quarterly, semi-annual and annual), nor if the Bank has decided to delay the dissemination of privileged information in accordance with the provisions of article 17 of the Market Abuse Regulation and until such information is disseminated, except (a) in exceptional circumstances, such as those that produce significant alterations in the volatility or the levels of supply or demand for shares or (b) in relation to repurchase programs, with respect to which the black out periods linked to periodic financial information will be limited to the financial information whose publication is legally required. To this effect, the Compliance function will inform the Investments and Holdings Department of the expected dates of publication of results and of the cases in which a delay of those indicated occurs. Exception procedure

In the event that the person responsible for treasury stock wishes to apply any of the practices that are considered exceptional in accordance with sections 6.2 to 6.8 above, he/she must inform the Bank's Compliance function and record in detail the reasons that justify the exception in the registry referred to in section 6.11. Information to the market

The Bank will publish quarterly information on the treasury stock operations carried out, including the balances of shares bought and sold and the treasury stock at the end of the period. The balances of cash used and obtained will also be published annually. Treasury Stock Policy

General Secretariat Page 8 of 8

Supervision and internal control

The Investments and Holdings Department, as the person responsible for the management of treasury stock, will maintain a record of the orders entered, modified or canceled and of the treasury stock operations executed. Said registry will be permanently available to the Compliance function. 7 GOVERNANCE

The risk, regulation and compliance supervision committee of the Bank's board of directors will be informed monthly by the Group Compliance Director about the trading with treasury stock carried out in that month, as well as about the operation of the controls carried out in the same period of time. Likewise, the executive committee will receive periodic information on the treasury stock activity in order to verify that the requirements established in article 146 of the Law on Capital Companies for the acquisition of own shares have been respected. 8 OWNERSHIP, INTERPRETATION, VALIDITY DATE AND PERIODIC REVIEW

• The approval of this document corresponds to the board of directors of Banco Santander, S.A. The current version was approved on February 26, 2024. • Its interpretation corresponds to the Director of the Investments and Holdings Department. • This document will enter into force on the date of its publication. Its content will be subject to periodic review, making or, where appropriate, the changes or modifications that are considered appropriate.